Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to do profile modelling but using extrusion instead.
Now what is a profile.
Well if we look at something side on let's say this was a tunnel in fact this could be a good example
of a profile.
And we can simply grab this end face here and extrude it out.
And look we've managed to make a tunnel using the profile of the doorway.
So if we take that to an extreme we could do the same thing around our doorway.
In fact I think we're going to need a mirror modifier at this point.
Now I'm not going to do this in edit mode for the moment I'm going to do this in object mode.
I can not ruin my original mesh and since we're building something on top of our doorway we can combine
them later as one objects okay.
So we've got a default cube in our scene that we can work with.
I'm going to go into edit mode here and select a H and I'm going to Bevel the edge control and B and
there we go.
And to add some more detail.
Now this is your standard Bevel there but what I can do is go into the operator panel and change its
profile if I make it a lower profile.
It will come inwards like so.
Now whilst I've got this opportunity I'm going to align it with my door and scale it appropriately so
I can play about whether it's in a bet.
So I'd like to do here is turn on wireframe so I can see where our door happens to be and then we're
going to place it roughly on this edge here.
So that's the corner is in one place because then what else I can do is I can select the edge in edit
mode I can select the edge there and then I can scale based upon the active elements I can select all
the rest of my model with the key and then just scale that's in which is super super useful.
Okay.
This is going to look a bit odd as a profile but your challenge you can meet in this up.
Let's go ahead.
I'm going to shift that back in a little actually.
So it goes over half way so they merge together.
So that looks like a pretty good profile and then you can you can alter it's you know you can put a
loop cuts in here and perhaps make it not so harsh a transition.
Oh I've still got proportional editing turned on so I can make that not such a harsh transition into
the wall or in fact just play around with these bits here until I get to roughly the right place is
something along those lines.
Again this is INSIDE geometry for the moment you we can meet up later but there we go we've got a pretty
neat profile that we can then go ahead and extrude.
And I want to show you a really good tip with extruded you're all by now used to the fact that we can
select a face you do need a face and then just extrude it up.
Excellent job's fine.
However let me undo that to duplicate.
That's another good thing by the way of The View.
If you have it on vertex select you can very easily see if you've inadvertently here the face is nice
and Bob vertex as well really stands out though we've got two bits of geometry on top of one another.
Okay.
And digressing there.
So we've got our top here.
I'm just going to move that up announce the way lift up a what happens when we have to go round the
archway here.
How do we control that.
Well we could.
I wouldn't rotate it.
I want to show you a couple of tips here.
If you rotate it look it's gone all narrow and squished.
What we want to do is share it.
See.
OK.
So you can go ahead and press the F three key and type in sheer and you can see the shortcut there is
shift control.
Alton s so you gonna have to be quite dexterous to do all of those and the toolbar on the left hand
side here we can scroll down there's an option to share.
And the great thing about this is if we go ahead and share we've got some controls here why not if we
pull that down we get it at an angle pretty awesome hey look it hasn't gotten any narrower.
Let's see how this behaves because it doesn't always behave the same if you use the shortcut key so
control shift outs and s oh what's happening.
Well at the moment it's probably doing it around all axes will.
Oh here we go at the top.
Press X or Y for the shear axes.
So if I go X it's going to share it backwards and forwards.
However we want it on its side.
So there we go if we press Y we could then extrude but we don't want to go round and do that all the
time.
But what we can do and this is incredibly useful and I'm starting to doubt how big my door detailing
is here I am going to make this whole lot slightly smaller and then move it to there it's going to look
much better overall.
And again tweaking like this absolutely fine feel free to tweak to your heart's content.
Yeah that looks much better.
Okay.
So we still have the control nodes here for our share tool.
Let's go ahead and select the select tool instead what we can do instead of pressing E and extrude thing
and then trying to rotate it round is we can hold down control and right click and that will extrude
to a certain position.
Now this doesn't have to match the detail on the wall but as you can see here if we do it at intervals
that are good.
We also maintain the thickness as we go round it gets a bit wobbly and we can needs that up but that
is pretty good.
And we've got quite a bit of door detail there.
Now this is where I would go ahead and say we need ourselves a mirror.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Add a modifier a mirror modifier.
And there we go it's coming down.
I'm going to turn on clipping and that's it for the moment.
The reason why I want to turn on clipping is because if we have a look here we should be able to rotate
these things round so they actually clip into one another.
Now it looks like this loop cut here.
Let's go ahead and say this edge loop here.
That's already gone over the central point so that's a loss straight away.
So I'm going to need to turn clipping off first in order to move that back and out the way like so.
And then I can go ahead and grab this final edge loop where the faces then I can turn clipping back
on rotate it round or shear it round so let's go ahead and share looks vertical to me and then just
move it back until it snaps into the right place.
And there we go.
Perfect.
Now this is actually quite a bit of detail going on here and there is another issue.
We can see here that this is being mirrored around a funny place.
I don't think it's being mirrored around the middle of the door.
No it's not slightly out.
So everything that I've just done there is wrong because of our mirror point if I was so close to being
the right place.
I didn't notice a way around that I'm going to add an empty into the scene so come out I'm going to
add an empty empties of great things.
We've used them a lot when it came to the animated lamp being able to point things to the right place.
But if I sit in this empty here and call it the door mirror and holding down shift I'm going to set
the doorway as its parent so I can click and drag there rather than clicking and trying to select elsewhere.
Okay.
I do need to place it somewhere and I'm going to place it where X equals two.
There we go.
That is in the middle of the doorway.
Easy to get caught out with a mirror modifier.
But then I can set the mirror object to the door mirror.
That's what that's supposed to look like so there we go.
We can now come in and move and merge.
That looks pretty good.
I'm going to grab this little ledge loop here.
Press the G key twice.
Just do a tiny bit of sliding and then I can move that up as well and providing that you're on an awful
graphic projection none of this is going to slip and deviate from the plainer surface that you're placing
it's on.
Now finally here I would argue that we do need to go ahead and mirror on the y axis as well.
And this is where the problem happens because our mirror our door mirror here which is in two places.
Yep that's absolutely fine our door mirror here is to be under the building as well.
Good.
There we go we're referring to the proper door mirror.
And here we go.
The location is two meters.
That's fine but halfway through the door on the y axis is point two.
And there we go we're starting to build up a decent doorway here.
And at this point in time if you really wanted to we could go into edit mode select the face loop running
around.
Just press G because we don't want any extra geometry and because we have clipping turned on we can
press the wiki and there we go.
It's managed to merge those together.
Perfect.
Now in all honesty that's probably a little too much geometry but doors like this tend to be a focal
point they tend to be quite unique.
So even in a low polygon world you may still want a little bit of extra detail we can see here still
very low polygon and there we go.
That's my door done and dusted.
Of course you can go ahead and change the shading the viewport shading here.
I sometimes like going to a mach cap and playing with some of the material options in here.
When you do that it really does help you see the form and shape of your objects.
But there we go there are a couple of things here that I may want to improve like the fact that it goes
under the floor but that's not overly important at the moment.
Okay.
Now your challenge is to go off and create your own Arch Way or own doorway.
That does depend what type of building you're creating.
Now did you go for a different profile.
That's another way that you can make your model distinct.
And finally before you go off and do that challenge if you've done like I've done and you think well
hang on a minute you we can visually see here that there's quite a bit of extra geometry here.
And as we go round this bit here is full of geometry perhaps too much.
Well what we can do is hold down ALT and select that edge loop.
Press X and instead of deleting it just dissolve it look at that it's gone.
So let's go ahead and do that one.
Hold down shift select this one as well.
Do I want to say that.
Yep that's fine.
Go X and dissolve and look.
We've managed to lower the polygon count of our archway.
And at this point I can start to see some glaring problems.
So I'm going to make it a little bit more low polygon here as well.
So X dissolve edges and look about you can really see here that we do need to do a tiny bit tweaking
the approach G here and move it back slightly.
I'm going to press control shift Alton s and move around on the y axis.
Try and make it look just a little bit better as it goes round and what I know this is not going to
be perfect because it is never going to be at this low polygon but just grabbing things are moving them
around I think is enough there to make it flow just a little bit more smoothly.
This this first one here I'm not liking that it seems to go in and then out again.
So I'm just going to select the edge loop itself by holding down controlling clicking and rotate its
ever so slightly and then move it.
Now remember you can also press the G key twice the change where that actual edge loop exists as a very
useful tool as well.
So that looks a little bit better.
I'm liking that.
Perfect.
Okay.
I'm going to leave you to tweak your archways now please do share how you get on and I'll see you all
in the next lecture.